@CityBuilding2Screen_Unlocked
   SECURITY STATUS
Eastern door: UNLOCKED
Continuous key
randomization:     N/A#

@CityBuilding2Screen_Locked
   SECURITY STATUS
Eastern door:   LOCKED
Continuous key
randomization: ENABLED#

@CityBuilding2Screen_Question
Connect key generator
to western semaphore?%

@CityBuilding2Screen_Connected
Western semaphore is
now connected to key
generator output.#

@CityFlowerOrcAngry
Hey! Thief! You take
my flower!#

@CityFlowerOrcCalm_Part1
Who you? Human? Seem
too small to fight...
Not know why we fight
humans.#

@CityFlowerOrcCalm_Part2
Happier in pretty orc
village. Humans happy
in ugly human village.
Why fight? Pointless.#

@CoreSouthCorra_HelloAgain1
Hello again! I heard
that you were going to
try to rescue your
friends from the orcs.#

@CoreSouthCorra_HelloAgain2
I've never seen ANY
place like this. Who
could have built
something like this?#

@CoreSouthCorra_HelloAgain3
Are you going to climb
up? Let me see if I
can help you...#

@CoreSouthCorra_AlreadyHelped
Good luck! And be
careful!#

@CryptTombPlaque_Page1
Here lies Dr. Zoe Alda
      2192-2275
Daughter of humans and
The mother of mermaids#

@CryptTombPlaque_Page2
May we ever remember
    her service,
  And never repeat
    her mistakes.#

@GardenEastCorra_Question
Are you...a human?
A real human girl?%

@GardenEastCorra_No
Ha! You can't fool me.#

@GardenEastCorra_Yes
But...humans aren't
supposed to be down
here! I've never even
met one before.#

@GardenEastCorra_MeetQueen
You should meet with
our queen. She will
know what to do with
you.#

@GardenEastCorra_MarkMap
I'll mark her hut on
your map.#

@FactoryEastCorra_Intro
Oh, Anna! Your brother
told me that mermaids
used to be humans.
That we're the same.#

@FactoryEastCorra_Question
But...that can't be
true! Is it?%

@FactoryEastCorra_Yes
I can't...I can't
believe it...#

@FactoryEastCorra_No
Of course...I knew it
couldn't really be
true...#

@FactoryEastCorra_Mid1
We mermaids are so
different from humans.
We live in peace. We
don't judge others.#

@FactoryEastCorra_Mid2
...Anna, I don't know
what to think. But I
want to help you save
your people.#

@FactoryEastCorra_Mid3
If you're trying to
get into that city
above us, I can help
you climb up.#

@FactoryEastCorra_End
Good luck, Anna. I
hope that I'll meet
you again someday.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part1
If you wish to parley,
speak quickly. You are
not welcome in our
vale, orc.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part2
Ha! Nor are humans,
and yet you harbor
them even now.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part3
They are your enemies
as much as we. Maybe
more so. So why do you
protect them from us?#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part4
I do not consider the
humans enemies, merely
dangerous fools. Much
like you.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part5
I admit, I had hoped
that they might listen
to reason.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part6
You act all wise, fish
woman, but unlike us,
you have no vision and
no will.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine1_Part7
The humans failed. You
mermaids are cowards.
So it falls to orcs to
lead the way forward.#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine2_Part1
Oh? And will you
destroy yourselves, as
the humans did?#

@GardenShrineBreakerMine2_Part2
Better death than to
rot down here, as you
have apparently chosen
to do!#

@FactoryElevatorBruno_Wait
Hey Anna, wait up!#

@FactoryElevatorBruno_Hi1
Whew, glad you made it
out of there OK, Anna.
Alex asked me to keep
an eye out for you.#

@FactoryElevatorBruno_Hi2
A lot's been happening
while you were gone.
Orcs on the move, more
machines turning on...#

@FactoryElevatorBruno_Hi3
Queen Eirene seems
pretty agitated, but
she's still letting us
stay for now.#

@FactoryElevatorBruno_Hi4
And, uh...Alex found
something weird. He
wanted you to meet him
when you got back.#

@FactoryElevatorBruno_Hi5
I'll mark it on your
map.#

@FactoryVaultAlex1_Part1
Anna, you're back!
Would you look at this
place? It opened up
while you were gone.#

@FactoryVaultAlex1_Part2
I think we finally
found what the ancient
humans were building
in this factory.#

@FactoryVaultAlex2_Part1
Hmm, it's got a label.
Let's see...
`Human Mutation Tank
 Serial No. 94209382'#

@FactoryVaultAlex2_Part2
Human...mutation?#

@FactoryVaultAlex3_Part1
Anna...remember how
you found out that the
first mermaids were
created by humans?#

@FactoryVaultAlex3_Part2
If I'm understanding
this right...it looks
like those mermaids
were made FROM humans.#

@FactoryVaultAlex3_Part3
This was all centuries
ago. And now we're two
different peoples. But
why do any of that?#

@FactoryVaultAlex3_Part4
They had practically
unlimited technology
and knowledge. So why
this? I don't get it.#

@FactoryVaultAlex4_Part1
Well, if you got the
pass into the sewers
opened up, then the
city is our next goal.#

@FactoryVaultAlex4_Part2
The orcs are already
there, looking for
something. I'm not
exactly sure what.#

@FactoryVaultAlex4_Part3
Whatever it is, we've
got to find it first!#

@FactoryVaultScreen_Page1
ERROR: Gene mutation
tank production line
has been stalled.#

@FactoryVaultScreen_Page2
Current batch: Q6382A
Designated for:
  Volunteer group 922
  <Mermaid Aspect>#

@FactoryVaultScreen_Page3
Due date: 2245 Feb 21
Overdue by: 495 years
Report to supervisor
for instructions.#

@LavaVentSign
Salt Mines {kTileIdBgArrowRight}

{kTileIdBgArrowDown} Geothermal Station#

@MermaidEntrySign
{kTileIdBgArrowLeft} Hanging Gardens

Mermaid Village {kTileIdBgArrowRight}#

@MermaidHut1Guard
All hail Queen Eirene!#

@MermaidHut1Queen_FirstMeeting1
So, you must be the
human I've heard is
running around.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_FirstMeeting2
Humans belong on the
surface, not here. So
what are you doing
down here among us?#

@MermaidHut1Queen_FirstMeeting3
...I see. So the orcs
attacked, and now you
are a refugee. This
complicates things.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_FirstMeeting4
I will be honest: I do
not trust humans.
However, I don't care
for the orcs either.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_GrantAsylum
I will grant you safe
asylum in our village,
on one condition: that
you help us in return.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_HelpFarmers
Speak with our farmers
in this village. They
have a problem a human
could perhaps solve.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_GardenBossDead1
I heard you helped our
farmers. And you even
survived. I thank you.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_GardenBossDead2
Perhaps...perhaps you
could help us with one
more problem.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleProblem
There's a temple west
of the gardens. It's
very important to us.
At least, it once was.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleEntry
I'd like you to visit
the temple. The guards
east of my hut can
tell you more.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleBossDead1
I take it that you've
seen the whole of the
ruined temple? Maybe
now you understand.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleBossDead2
Our two peoples built
it together, centuries
ago. It was to be a
symbol of peace.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleBossDead3
But before long, the
humans desecrated it
into a mechanized
fortress instead.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleBossDead4
Humans are just like
the orcs. Violent and
untrustworthy, despite
our best efforts.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_TempleBossDead5
But enough. My scouts
tell me there is a way
for you to reach your
fellow villagers.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_OtherRuins
There are...another
kind of ruins buried
just above our humble
vale. Older ones.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_FindYourFriends
If you climb upwards
through there, you may
be able to find and
rescue your friends.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_KidsRescued1
The children from your
village have arrived
safely. I have granted
them asylum for now.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_KidsRescued2
You can find them in
the southeastern hut
of this village.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCrypt1
You and the children
are free to stay here
until the orc threat
has been resolved.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCrypt2
I hope in the meantime
that you will consider
well the benefits of
our way of life.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterMine
TODO#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCity1
Anna, please. You must
convince your brother
to abandon the ancient
humans' technology.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCity2
Do you know the fable
of the Monkey's Paw?
It would grant you
any wish you asked.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCity3
Any wish, no questions
asked, no matter how
foolish. No matter how
self-destructive.#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCity4
That is the power you
are flirting with. Who
could you ever trust
with such an object?#

@MermaidHut1Queen_AfterCity5
You must cast it away,
forever. The only wise
wish is to wish for no
more wishes.#

@MermaidHut1BreakerGarden
What the...What did
that human girl just
do!?#

@MermaidHut1AlexPetition_Part1
Please, your highness,
I've got to know more
about that complex
above here!#

@MermaidHut1AlexPetition_Part2
Knowledge can be a
dangerous thing,
child. Just leave
those ruins alone.#

@MermaidHut1AlexPetition_Part3
But that technology
could benefit all of
us! How did all that
end up forgotten?#

@MermaidHut1AlexPetition_Part4
That technology would
destroy you. Just like
before. I will speak
no more of it.#

@MermaidHut1AlexPetition_Part5
...fine, then, keep
your secrets. I guess
I'll just have to
figure it out myself.#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part1
Why are you so afraid
of the old technology,
anyway? Why won't you
help us revive it?#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part2
More technology gives
you more power. And
too much power always,
always corrupts.#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part3
Don't take MY word for
it. Human civilization
collapsed! You can't
be trusted with it.#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part4
So what, we should all
go back to being poor,
and spending winters
trying not to starve?#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part5
If high civilization
failed last time, we
should learn from it,
and try again!#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part6
If you had learned
anything, you would
give up on this path.
It's a dead end.#

@MermaidHut1BreakerCrypt_Part7
And if you'd learned
anything about humans,
you'd know that we
NEVER give up.#

@MermaidHut3Daphne_Intro
There's a natural hot
spring just east of
this village.#

@MermaidHut3Daphne_Open
The water is heated by
magma flows far below.
It's a great place to
relax.#

@MermaidHut3Daphne_Closed
Unfortunately, all the
water got drained out
somehow. So now we
can't use it.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe
You're so lucky that
you get to go on an
adventure. I'm stuck
here at home.#

@MermaidSpringAlex_Part1
Thanks for coming. I
hate to ask, but...
well, you're the best
with these machines.#

@MermaidSpringAlex_Part2
I'm convinced we'll
find answers in that
city, but every way
in is blocked off.#

@MermaidSpringAlex_Part3
However, I think we
can get there via the
caves, by approaching
from below.#

@MermaidSpringAlex_Part4
The mermaids aren't
helping. But I found
something they had
stashed away...#

@MermaidSpringAlex_Part5
What do you think? I'd
say it's time to start
delving deeper around
here.#

@MermaidSpringSign_Open
   - Hot Spring -
Please enjoy a restful
and relaxing soak.#

@MermaidSpringSign_Closed
   - Hot Spring -
Currently closed for
maintenance.#

@PrisonFlowerSign
Surface Access {kTileIdBgArrowRight}

{kTileIdBgArrowLeft} Holding Cells#

@PrisonUpperBreakerTemple1_Part1
Oktok! Chief Gronta
say come quick!#

@PrisonUpperBreakerTemple1_Part2
More machines, they
are turning on!#

@PrisonUpperBreakerTemple2
...Hey! What about us?#

@PrisonUpperAlexCell_Intro
Anna! Thank goodness
you're here! The orcs
threw us in here, but
they're gone now.#

@PrisonUpperAlexCell_GetDoorOpen
See if you can find a
way to get this door
open.#

@PrisonUpperAlexFree_Part1
Thanks! That door was
too heavy, but I think
I can pick the locks
on the other cells.#

@PrisonUpperAlexFree_Part2
I'll let the others
out, then scout ahead.
Be right back.#

@PrisonUpperAlexLast_Part1
Bad news: the passage
up to the surface has
collapsed. I don't
know another way yet.#

@PrisonUpperAlexLast_Part2
We'll need a safe spot
to camp. Where have
you been staying since
you escaped, Anna?#

@PrisonUpperAlexLast_Part3
...Mermaid village?
Wait, seriously?
Mermaids are real?#

@PrisonUpperAlexLast_Part4
All right. I'll lead
the other kids down
and meet up with you
there. See you soon.#

@PrisonUpperBruno_Adults
Are the adults OK?#

@PrisonUpperBruno_ClimbUp
I think you're going
to have to climb up
top.#

@PrisonUpperMarie_GoTalkToAlex
It's Anna! Quick, go
talk to Alex! He's in
the cell up ahead.#

@PrisonUpperMarie_LooseBrick
I can help. There's a
loose brick up there.
If I push it, I can
get you a foothold.#

@PrisonUpperMarie_StandCareful
There! I think you can
stand on that brick if
you're careful.#

@PrisonUpperNora
My sister STILL keeps
peeing her pants!#

@ShadowDrillScreen_Page1
By gene mutation, each
group will become able
to live in entirely
separate habitats.#

@ShadowDrillScreen_Page2
Voluntary segregation
by ideology. A social
divorce. An amicable
end to incompatibily.#

@ShadowDrillScreen_Page3
There will be no more
need to reconcile our
differences.#

@ShadowGateScreen_Page1
Our social divide is
irreparable. We want
to live different. We
want to BE different.#

@ShadowGateScreen_Page2
Finally, we can now
make that a reality.#

@ShadowTeleportScreen_Page1
Long have we tried and
failed to use modern
technology to solve
old social problems.#

@ShadowTeleportScreen_Page2
And yet, sometimes an
advancement can render
a seemingly unsolvable
problem irrelevant.#

@TempleAltarPlaque
- Temple of Peace -
 Built together by
mermaids and humans.
   - A.D. 2250 -#

@TempleNaveAlexStand_Part1
Good to see you, Anna.
I've been exploring
this temple. Learning
a lot.#

@TempleNaveAlexStand_Part2
I guess humans and
mermaids used to be
friends. They built
this place together.#

@TempleNaveAlexStand_Part3
But all this advanced
technology...it's from
humans. How did we
lose that knowledge?#

@TempleNaveAlexBoost1
Anna, I think there's
something hidden under
this temple. We should
find out what it is.#

@TempleNaveAlexBoost2
Hop on up. I'll give
you a boost.#

@TownHouse1Nora
My baby sister keeps
peeing her pants!#

@TownHouse2Stela_Part1
Can't sleep, Anna?#

@TownHouse2Stela_Part2
Your brother Alex is
up late, too.#

@TownHouse2Stela_Part3
I think he went
outside somewhere. Why
don't you go find him?#

@TownHouse3Smith_Part1
You lookin' fer yer
brother? Haven't seen
`im. Probably pokin'
around somewhere.#

@TownHouse3Smith_Part2
That boy's a good
apprentice. Good smith
someday. Too curious
fer `is own good, tho.#

@TownHouse4Laura_Waiting1
Your Uncle Martin and
I are waiting here for
Elder Roman to meet
with us.#

@TownHouse4Laura_Waiting2
I wonder what's taking
him so long?#

@TownHouse4Martin
I hope Nora is taking
good care of her baby
sister Nina back at
home...#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava1_Part1
I ask only one more
time: where is the
B-Remote?#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava1_Part2
What's a bee-re-moat?
I don't know what
you're talking about!#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava1_Part3
You cannot hide it
from me! We orcs WILL
take over control of
all your machines!#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava1_Part4
What machines? All we
humans have is farming
and smithing. The same
as you brutes!#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava2_Part1
How dare talk back to
me? I am Thurg, son of
Gurg! Lieutenent of
great Chief Gronta!#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava2_Part2
Humans aren't fit to
wield even their own
inventions. Now is OUR
turn to show you how.#

@TownHouse4BreakerLava3
Grunt Hobok! Continue
the interrogation. I
go now to report to
the Chief.#

@TownHouse6Elder_Part1
...zzz...When're Laura
and Martin going to be
here?...#

@TownHouse6Elder_Part2
...Old Man Roman has
been waiting here for
a long time...zzz...#

@TownOutdoorsAlex1
Hi, Anna! I wanted to
show you something.
Look at what I found
in the dirt over here!#

@TownOutdoorsAlex2_Part1
It's some weird metal
thing. But nothing
like the iron or steel
Smith Dominic uses.#

@TownOutdoorsAlex2_Part2
No idea what it is. It
almost looks like part
of a machine, but it
seems so...advanced.#

@TownOutdoorsAlex2_Part3
I wonder where a thing
like this could have
come from...#

@TownOutdoorsAlex3_Explore1
Do you ever wish we
could just leave this
town and go exploring?
You and me?#

@TownOutdoorsAlex3_Explore2
Mom always says it's
too dangerous, but I
bet we could handle
anything out there...#

@TownOutdoorsAlex3_HandleThis
Handle THIS, human.#

@TownOutdoorsAlex3_WhaWhat
Wha- what?#

@TownOutdoorsAlex3_Attack1
Orcs, attaaaaaack!#

@TownOutdoorsAlex3_Attack2
Anna, run!#

@TownOutdoorsGronta_Search1
Lieutenent Thurg! Have
the grunts round up
the townsfolk and lock
these kids up.#

@TownOutdoorsGronta_Search2
Then we can begin our
search.#

@TownOutdoorsGronta_YesChief
Yes, Chief Gronta!#

@TownOutdoorsIvan_Part1
The harvest isn't
looking good, Sandra.
This might be a tough
winter for all of us.#

@TownOutdoorsIvan_Part2
Oh, sorry Anna, I
didn't see you there.#

@TownOutdoorsSandra_Part1
Looking for Alex? He
popped by the house
earlier to see Bruno
and Marie.#

@TownOutdoorsSandra_Part2
One of them might know
where he went.#

@TownOutdoorsSign

 Bartik Town Hall#
