@PaperJerome01_Page1
Day 1: My name is
Jerome. It was I who
created the orcs.#

@PaperJerome01_Page2
In these pages, I feel
compelled to make my
confession.#

@PaperJerome02_Page1
Day 2: I had joined
the research effort as
a junior bioengineer
in early 2230.#

@PaperJerome02_Page2
It was a great honor
for me to be working
alongside the famed
Dr. Zoe Alda.#

@PaperJerome03_Page1
Day 3: In 2235 we had
the breakthrough that
made the creation of
the mermaids possible.#

@PaperJerome03_Page2
Dr. Alda envisioned a
newfound freedom for
anyone who wanted a
new life.#

@PaperJerome04_Page1
Day 4: As much as I
admired Dr. Alda, I
felt that we needed
a counterbalance.#

@PaperJerome04_Page2
Surely, not everyone
who wanted to change
would subscribe to the
mermaids' ideals.#

@PaperJerome05_Page1
Day 5: Indeed, most
who chose to become
mermaids were highly
idealistic.#

@PaperJerome05_Page2
They felt that they
could create a new
society without the
baggage of humanity.#

@PaperJerome05_Page3
A perfect society,
free of conflict and
greed.#

@PaperJerome06_Page1
Day 6: Those who chose
to become orcs seemed
to me more realist. At
least at first.#

@PaperJerome06_Page2
The mermaids wanted
nothing to do with
them, and the feeling
was clearly mutual.#

@PaperJerome06_Page3
We assumed each group
would prosper, so long
as each could abandon
the other's presense.#

@PaperJerome07_Page1
Day 7: At least, that
was the idea. Peace,
at last. But clearly
it failed.#

@PaperJerome07_Page2
A cautionary tale, if
only there were anyone
left to caution.#

@PaperJerome08_Page1
Day 8: The mermaids
seek utopia. They say
they've rid themselves
of hate and violence.#

@PaperJerome08_Page2
Of violence? I admit
that they seem to have
succeeded where humans
have always failed.#

@PaperJerome08_Page3
But of hate? Of pride?
They have only deluded
themselves.#

@PaperJerome09_Page1
Day 9: Meanwhile, the
orcs value conviction.
Honor. Valor. All fine
qualities.#

@PaperJerome09_Page2
But I regret they are
fast losing sight of
what they claim their
convictions stand for.#

@PaperJerome09_Page3
And so they, too, are
no better than us
humans.#

@PaperJerome10_Page1
Day 10: The orcs would
rule in our place, if
we let them. I doubt
that would go well.#

@PaperJerome11_Page1
Day 11: And yet, who
am I to judge? Perhaps
they would do better
than we did.#

@PaperJerome11_Page2
It's not as though the
bar is very high.#

@PaperJerome12_Page1
Day 12: So where do I
even start? We were a
great civilization
once, before the orcs.#

@PaperJerome12_Page2
But we were already
crumbling long before
they attacked.#

@PaperJerome13_Page1
Day 13: And now, there
is nothing left of us
but our machines.#

@PaperJerome13_Page2
I wonder for how long
those will keep on
working. A long time.
Maybe forever.#

@PaperJerome14_Page1
Day 14: It saddens me
that we couldn't build
a society as robust as
our technology.#

@PaperJerome14_Page2
We had the knowledge,
but not the wisdom
necessary. Nor the
humility we needed.#

@PaperJerome15_Page1
Day 15: Now facing our
apocalypse, I find
myself musing on how
it came to happen.#

@PaperJerome15_Page2
Our demise always
seemed likely, but
oddly, none of the
likely causes arose.#

@PaperJerome16_Page1
Day 16: Some thought
our technology would
destroy us. They were
mostly wrong.#

@PaperJerome16_Page2
But only mostly.#

@PaperJerome17_Page1
Day 17: We constructed
weapons that could end
all life on Earth.
Thousands of them.#

@PaperJerome17_Page2
Thankfully, we never
used them.#

@PaperJerome18_Page1
Day 18: We developed
artificial minds so
smart, they could have
ruled us. Enslaved us.#

@PaperJerome18_Page2
But it turned out that
they didn't want to.#

@PaperJerome19_Page1
Day 19: We sought
better life through
chemistry. We spewed
substances recklessly.#

@PaperJerome19_Page2
And yet, we eventually
got most of it cleaned
up. Enough of it,
anyway.#

@PaperJerome20_Page1
Day 20: In the end,
the problem wasn't our
technology. It was us.#

@PaperJerome21_Page1
Day 21: When Dr. Alda
created the mermaids,
she was trying to help
solve that problem.#

@PaperJerome21_Page2
But frankly, I think
she only made things
worse. Not that I did
any better, of course.#

@PaperJerome22_Page1
Day 22: She believed
that we could reshape
human culture by
reshaping humans.#

@PaperJerome22_Page2
And so we tried it. It
worked, sort of. Human
culture could indeed
be altered.#

@PaperJerome23_Page1
Day 23: But human
nature was still
there. The mermaids
proved this, I think.#

@PaperJerome23_Page2
The orcs, more so.#

@PaperJerome24_Page1
Day 24: I suppose one
could argue that we
just didn't change
enough.#

@PaperJerome24_Page2
But how much can we
change humans before
they aren't remotely
human anymore?#

@PaperJerome25_Page1
Day 25: The whole idea
was to allow humans to
live as they wanted.
To be free.#

@PaperJerome25_Page2
But the eternal truth
of humans is that what
we want is not always
what's best for us.#

@PaperJerome25_Page3
Especially when what
we want is for those
who disagree with us
to not exist.#

@PaperJerome26_Page1
Day 26: Once their
frustration with us
boiled over, the orcs
attacked.#

@PaperJerome26_Page2
It was more riot than
war, but the conflict
lasted five years. The
mermaids were no help.#

@PaperJerome27_Page1
Day 27: By 2250 things
had settled down a
bit, but the mistrust
never really ended.#

@PaperJerome27_Page2
We built the Peace
Temple together with
the mermaids, but it
was a feeble gesture.#

@PaperJerome27_Page3
The orcs continued to
seethe. The mermaids
soon grew disgusted
with us both.#

@PaperJerome28_Page1
Day 28: We tried to
make peace with them,
of course. In the end
it wasn't possible.#

@PaperJerome28_Page2
But after all, that's
why we and they were
different in the first
place, isn't it?#

@PaperJerome29_Page1
Day 29: Fearful of
further unrest, we
began to fortify the
temple and the city.#

@PaperJerome29_Page2
Of course, this only
further incensed the
mermaids, and they
cut all ties with us.#

@PaperJerome30_Page1
Day 30: In the years
that followed, human
society began to break
down.#

@PaperJerome30_Page2
Too much critical
infrastructure was no
longer possible to
maintain.#

@PaperJerome30_Page3
The city and complex
were slowly evacuated.#

@PaperJerome31_Page1
Day 31: Despite how we
chose to use all our
technology, it needn't
have gone that way.#

@PaperJerome31_Page2
The complex core and
all these machines
could one day be put
to a different use.#

@PaperJerome32_Page1
Day 32: We had so much
potential. Exploring
space. Eradicating
disease. Fusion power.#

@PaperJerome32_Page2
But instead we brought
all of our knowledge
to bear on a single
problem:#

@PaperJerome32_Page3
Having to compromise.#

@PaperJerome33_Page1
Day 33: So in the end,
we didn't. We went our
separate ways, all of
us.#

@PaperJerome33_Page2
Each group retreated
from the other, and
now our civilization
is collapsing.#

@PaperJerome33_Page3
Our advanced society
is impossible to
maintain without
cooperation.#

@PaperJerome34_Page1
Day 34: Our technology
is amazing, but lest
we forget, we're all
still just mortals.#

@PaperJerome34_Page2
No matter how high we
build, in the end the
grave still comes for
us all.#

@PaperJerome35_Page1
Day 35: I have hidden
the remote. Without it
the complex can never
be fully put to use.#

@PaperJerome35_Page2
I can't bring myself
to destroy our work.
Maybe, someday, we'll
be responsible enough.#

@PaperJerome35_Page3
Maybe someday...#

@PaperJerome36_Page1
Day 36: By now there's
probably not much time
left to finish this.#

@PaperJerome36_Page2
I'm going to start
pinning up all these
pages. Maybe someday
someone'll find them.#

@PaperJerome36_Page3
By then, I'm sure I'll
be long gone.#

@PaperManual1_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.1:
Basic console control:
 A: confirm
 B: cancel/exit#

@PaperManual1_Page2
 SELECT: insert new
   instruction
 START: activate
   debugger#

@PaperManual2_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.2:
Programs are saved
automatically when
a console is closed.#

@PaperManual2_Page2
Progress is also saved
automatically whenever
entering or leaving a
room.#

@PaperManual3_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.3:
A program loops until
an END is reached or
an error occurs.#

@PaperManual3_Page2
An error occurs if a
machine tries to MOVE
or ACT but cannot.#

@PaperManual4_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.4:
Every machine has an
`A' register that you
can COPY values into.#

@PaperManual4_Page2
Unlike other registers
it does nothing on its
own, but it can store
a value for later.#

@PaperManual5_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.5:
Common register names:
 F:flag    D:distance
 J:index   K:key/lock#

@PaperManual5_Page2
L/R:lever  M:mirror
  P:power  S:sensor
  T:turn   U:upper
  V:valve  W:weight#

@PaperManual5_Page3
 X:horzizontal offset
 Y:vertical ascent
 Z:vertical descent#

@PaperManual6_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.6:
It can be useful to
compare one register
directly to another.#

@PaperManual6_Page2
For example:
  :IF Y>L
  :MOVE {kTileIdBgArrowDown}
or the reverse.#

@PaperManual7_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.7:
Two IFs can combine to
test that either of
two conditions hold.#

@PaperManual7_Page2
e.g. for A=3 OR A=7:
 :IF A{kTileIdBgCmpNe}3
 :IF A=7
 :then this#

@PaperManual8_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.8:
Three IFs can combine
to test that both of
two conditions hold.#

@PaperManual8_Page2
e.g. for A{kTileIdBgCmpGe}3 AND A{kTileIdBgCmpLe}7:
 :IF A{kTileIdBgCmpGe}3
 :IF A>7
 :IF 0=1#

@PaperManual9_Page1
CPU FIELD MANUAL p.9:
An IF can guard a TIL
loop whose condition
is already met.#

@PaperManual9_Page2
For example:
  :IF X<5
  :MOVE {kTileIdBgArrowRight}
  :TIL X{kTileIdBgCmpGe}5#

@UpgradeRam
     PROGRAM RAM
Increases max program
size by 2 instructions.#

@UpgradeBRemote
       B-REMOTE
Uses the B button to
control the B register.#

@UpgradeOpIf
      IF OPCODE
Skips next instruction
unless condition is met.#

@UpgradeOpTil
      TIL OPCODE
Repeats last instruction
until condition is met.#

@UpgradeOpCopy
     COPY OPCODE
Copies a value into a
register.#

@UpgradeOpAddSub
   ADD/SUB OPCODES
Adds or subtracts one
value from another.#

@UpgradeOpMul
      MUL OPCODE
Multiplies one value by
another.#

@UpgradeOpGoto
     GOTO OPCODE
Jumps directly to a
specific instruction.#

@UpgradeOpSkip
     SKIP OPCODE
Skips over a variable
number of instructions.#

@UpgradeOpRest
     REST OPCODE
Pauses execution for a
short time.#

@UpgradeOpSync
     SYNC OPCODE
Pauses execution until
all machines sync.#

@UpgradeOpBeep
     BEEP OPCODE
Plays one of ten musical
tones.#
