@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part1
Pfagh, you again? If
you value your life,
boy, you should leave
these ruins to us.#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part2
You're the ones who'd
better leave! This
is a human city. It
belongs to us!#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part3
Oh? And did YOU build
these buildings? Did
your townsfolk create
these machines?#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part4
Of course you didn't.
The people who did
have all been dead
for centuries.#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part5
Those humans couldn't
handle the power they
created. And now you
think YOU deserve it?#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part6
You have less claim
than we do. At least
orcs never collapsed
advanced civilization.#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part7
You never created it,
either. Humans can
learn. And next time,
we'll do it right!#

@CityCenterBreakerCity1_Part8
`Next time?' There
will be a `next time'
for humans in charge
over my dead body!#

@CityCenterBreakerCity2_Part1
...Another circuit?
But that must mean
that the power core
is almost...hmm.#

@CityCenterAlex_Part1
Anna, you found it!
That's the remote that
the orcs have been
looking for!#

@CityCenterAlex_Part2
We'll need that to
restore the complex.
But first, there's one
more circuit to find.#

@CityCenterAlex_Part3
Down in the lava pits,
there's some kind of
gateway. I'll mark it
on your map.#

@CityCenterAlex_Part4
I don't know how to
use it, but I'm sure
you can figure it out.
We've almost got this!#

@CityCenterAlex_Part5
Very soon, all this
technology will be
back in human hands!#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part1
Anna, you made it! I
knew you'd do great.
What did you find out
under the temple?#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part2
Huh? The mermaids were
CREATED by humans? But
how? And...why? Argh,
we know so little...#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part3
I've been out scouting
while you were away,
but I keep coming back
here. I can't help it.#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part4
Do you see all that?
We're on the outskirts
of a human city. Lost
and buried for years.#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part5
At home, we're barely
smithing iron. Can you
believe what we used
to be able to build?#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part6
We've GOT to find a
way into that city.
And I've got an idea
how.#

@CityOutskirtsAlex_Part7
Meet me down in the
mermaid village, OK?#

@CoreBossGrontaIntro_Part1
Ahhhh...here you are,
little human. You have
the remote, don't you?#

@CoreBossGrontaIntro_Part2
The remote that will
determine whether it
will be orcs or humans
that rule this place.#

@CoreBossGrontaIntro_Demand
I demand that you give
it to me!%

@CoreBossGrontaIntro_HandItOver
You're just going to
hand it over, then?%

@CoreBossGrontaIntro_PreparedToFight
Oh ho! Then are you
prepared to fight me?%

@CoreBossGrontaGive1
Bwahahaha! What a
coward!#

@CoreBossGrontaGive2
Now we orcs shall take
our rightful place as
masters of this world!#

@CoreBossGrontaDying_Part1
Argh...defeated by a
child!? Technology
gives you so much
power...#

@CoreBossGrontaDying_Part2
But human civilization
will just fail again!
You'd be better off
with orcs in charge...#

@CoreBossGrontaDying_Part3
Maybe...after you've
destroyed yourselves
a second time...we'll
get our chance...#

@CoreBossScreen_Intro
B-REMOTE RECOGNIZED.
CORE IS ONLINE AND
AWAITING COMMANDS.
>>>#

@CoreBossScreen_Reactivate
REACTIVATE COMPLEX?
>>>%

@CoreBossScreen_SelfDestruct
BEGIN SELF-DESTRUCT?
>>>%

@CoreLockBreakerShadow_Part1
At last! The way to
the core has been
opened!#

@CoreLockBreakerShadow_Part2
The humans have had
their chance with this
technology. Now it's
OUR turn.#

@MermaidHut2Guard_WatchOut1
The queen would never
let the orcs into our
vale, nor could they
best us by force.#

@MermaidHut2Guard_WatchOut2
Still, be wary if you
ever face their war
rhinos. They are not
to be trifled with.#

@MermaidHut2Guard_Impressed1
I heard that the orcs
and their war rhinos
have invaded the old
human ruins.#

@MermaidHut2Guard_Impressed2
Is it true that you
faced them alone, and
survived? If so, I am
impressed.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_Initial
You're so lucky that
you get to go on an
adventure. I'm stuck
here at home.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_AfterTemple
There are monsters in
the temple? Aw, man, I
wish my parents would
let me go see them.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_AfterCrypt
You got trapped in a
tomb full of creepy
spiders and bats?
That's so awesome!#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_AfterMine
You got to fight a
giant fire spider!?
Hey, no fair! I'm so
jealous!#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_AfterCity
You went to some dusty
old ruins? That sounds
boring! At least you
got chased by orcs.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_AfterShadow1
`Shadow Labs?' Full of
ghosts and stuff? Oh
c'mon, I know you made
all that up.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_AfterShadow2
There's no way a REAL
adventure would ever
be THAT cool.#

@MermaidHut3Phoebe_ComeBack
If you visit anywhere
else cool, make sure
you come back and tell
me all about it!#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Meet1
Ah...you must be that
human that I've been
hearing about.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Meet2
I don't suppose you'd
like to do me a favor?%

@MermaidHut4Florist_NeverMind1
Yes, well, I suppose
you must be very busy,
running around and
causing trouble.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_NeverMind2
Come back if you ever
change your mind.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Zero1
As you can see, my
home is looking rather
drab. Could you bring
me a flower?#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Zero2
If you go east from
this village and then
up a bit, you'll find
the one I want.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Zero3
It's very delicate.
Don't get hurt and
break it, or you'll
have to get another.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Brought
Ah, I see you've
brought me a flower!
How kind of you.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_One1
It does look nice up
there, don't you
think?#

@MermaidHut4Florist_One2
Only...it seems lonely
by itself. I suppose
you'll need to find
some more.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_One3
Not from where you got
this one, of course.
You'll have to look
elsewhere.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Two1
You may be wondering
why our queen doesn't
trust humans. I assure
you, she has reasons.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Two2
Truth be told, I don't
trust humans either.
Though your bringing
me flowers does help.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Two3
Perhaps I could
trouble you to find
another? I would so
appreciate it.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Three1
Humans and mermaids
used to be close
friends, you know.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Three2
But humans were never
able to shed their
violent ways, the way
we mermaids have.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Three3
And not just violence.
Shortsightedness in
general. Which is why
so few humans remain.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Four1
I suppose there's no
hiding it: by now you
have seen the complex
above our vale.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Four2
Unlike our temple, it
was built by humans
alone. It predates
even us mermaids.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Four3
And who knows? If not
for it, perhaps human
civilization could
have survived.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Four4
Probably not, though.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Five1
We've noticed you've
been restoring power
to those ancient
circuits, one by one.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Five2
The queen isn't happy
about it. But we are a
people of peace, and
she promised you aid.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Five3
If you really want to
doom your people all
over again, I suppose
that's your choice.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Five4
But woe be upon you if
you bring that down on
us mermaids as well.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Six1
Did you know there
used to be a human
city near here,
centuries ago?#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Six2
It was once the center
of everything around
here. A shining beacon
on a hill.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Six3
The humans reveled in
all that they had
built: civilization,
sophistication.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Six4
Now it's all forgotten
and forever buried
under the rubble.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Seven1
...You've been inside
the crypt, haven't
you? Perhaps the only
living soul who has.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Seven2
We know it's there,
but we don't like
to talk about it. Too
much painful history.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Seven3
Very few mermaids who
are alive today have
even heard the name of
Zoe Alda.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Seven4
As for me, suffice to
say I have...mixed
feelings about her
and her work.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eight1
I'm sure you know by
now why the orcs
attacked your town.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eight2
They want to claim the
ancient complex here
for themselves. They
think they deserve it.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eight3
And you poor people
didn't even know you
lived atop such an
attractive nuisance.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eight4
Like the Pearl Of The
World, you would have
been better off
without it.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Nine1
One wonders why the
orcs have never tried
to seize the ancient
ruins before now.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Nine2
Perhaps the orcs of
centuries past simply
didn't wish to?#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Nine3
Unlike the orcs of
today, they remembered
what happened to the
people who built them.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Nine4
I'm sure over time,
they've forgotten as
much history as you
humans obviously have.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Ten1
I know you know where
we mermaids came from.
And now, you know that
I know you know.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Ten2
Most mermaids today
don't, and they would
be ashamed to learn we
came from humans.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Ten3
I am not ashamed. My
human ancestors who
chose to become
mermaids chose well!#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Ten4
But the question is,
did Zoe Alda and her
colleagues choose well
for humanity?#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eleven1
By now I'm sure you've
seen the ruins of the
ancient human city
with your own eyes.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eleven2
It wasn't destroyed in
the war with the orcs.
Most of the buildings
there still stand!#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eleven3
No, it simply wasted
away, after human
civilization finished
tearing itself apart.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Eleven4
The stress was always
there, but it was your
technology that made
the rupture possible.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Twelve1
And that makes an even
dozen! How lovely. I
do appreciate all your
help, young one.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Twelve2
In exchange for this
gift of beauty...I'd
like to give you the
gift of music.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_Twelve3
I'll unlock my cellar.
You may take what you
find there.#

@MermaidHut4Florist_AllDone
Perhaps this gift will
give you a better use
for all those terrible
machines.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterRescue1
The mermaid queen is
letting us stay here,
but she doesn't seem
happy about it.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterRescue2
We're all settling in
fine, but I'm worried
about the adults. Do
you think they're OK?#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterCrypt1
Alex keeps talking
about some old city.
He seems weirdly
obsessed with it.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterCrypt2
Whatever you two are
planning...just make
sure you stay safe, OK
Anna?#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterMine1
Alex keeps talking
about all these weird
ideas he has. About
our ancient ancestors.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterMine2
Meanwhile, the Queen
seems more unsettled
lately. Something's
bothering her.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterMine3
We need to find a way
home before she kicks
us all out of here.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterCity1
Anna, I think Alex has
convinced me. We need
to reclaim all those
machines for humans.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterCity2
We won't be safe until
we defeat the orcs. We
can't do that without
the old technology.#

@MermaidHut5Marie_AfterCity3
The mermaids might not
like it, but, well, we
aren't mermaids. Let's
do what we have to do.#

@MermaidHut5Nora_AfterRescue
Well...if we're stuck
here, I guess I may as
well potty train my
little sister.#

@MermaidHut5Nora_AfterCrypt
C'mon, stop running
around, Nina! It's
gotta go IN the potty!#

@MermaidHut5Nora_AfterMine
I think little Nina is
getting the hang of
using the potty now.
Mostly, anyway.#

@MermaidHut5Nora_AfterCity1
Someday my baby sister
will be all grown up.
I wonder what she'll
be like?#

@MermaidHut5Nora_AfterCity2
I hope we get to go
home soon. You know,
before she grows up.#

@MermaidVillageAlex_Part1
Anna! Did you SEE that
place we went through
to get down here? It's
right under our town!#

@MermaidVillageAlex_Part2
It must be where that
metal thing I found is
from! ...And what the
orcs came looking for.#

@MermaidVillageAlex_Part3
We need to learn more.
But the queen won't
help! She's all upset
about some temple...#

@MermaidVillageAlex_Part4
Wait...she said humans
put machines in the
temple? Maybe we could
find some clues there.#

@MermaidVillageAlex_Part5
I'm going to go check
it out. Meet up with
me there later, OK?
I'll see you there.#

@MermaidVillageGuard_Guarding
I am helping to guard
this village. See that
you behave honorably
while you are here.#

@MermaidVillageGuard_Temple1
You'll find the temple
entrance just beyond
the northwest end of
the gardens.#

@MermaidVillageGuard_Temple2
The queen has already
sent word to the guard
there to allow you to
enter.#

@MermaidVillageGuard_Temple3
Just be careful. The
temple is not as safe
a place as it once
was.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_Farming
Our seaweed crop is
coming along well
enough this season.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_TowerDanger
The tower in the
gardens has been
giving us some
trouble, though.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_TowerSafe
And thanks to you, the
garden tower is once
again safe for us.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_NeedHelp
The queen sent you?
Thank goodness. We
could use your help.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_Monster
West of our village,
there is a tower in
the gardens. A monster
has taken it over.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_OpenTheWay
Perhaps one with your
ingenuity could get
rid of it? We'll open
the way up for you.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_ThankYou
You did it! Thank you
for your help. You
should go see the
queen.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_CoreSouth
Are you looking for
Corra? I think she
went exploring in the
caves above our vale.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_TempleEntry
Are you looking for
Corra? I think she
went to the temple to
pray.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_FactoryEast
Are you looking for
Corra? I think she
went exploring near
the old waterway.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_CorraGone1
Are you looking for
Corra? I haven't seen
her for a while now.
I hope she's safe.#

@MermaidVillageFarmer_CorraGone2
I hope she'll come
home soon...#

@MermaidVillageCorra_Hello1
Oh, hi! I met you back
in the gardens. I'm
Corra, by the way.#

@MermaidVillageCorra_Hello2
I like to go exploring
sometimes, so maybe
I'll see you around?#

@MermaidVillageCorra_FoundFriends
Welcome back! I'm so
glad you found your
friends. They'll be
safe here.#

@MermaidVillageCorra_VisitTemple1
I always feel at peace
whenever I visit the
temple...not that I
ever go inside.#

@MermaidVillageCorra_VisitTemple2
I guess I just like to
know that it's there.#

@MermaidVillageBruno_AlexWithQueen
If you're looking for
Alex, I think he went
to go talk with the
mermaid queen.#

@MermaidVillageBruno_AlexInTemple
If you're looking for
Alex, I think he's
waiting for you in the
temple.#

@MermaidVillageBruno_AlexNearCity
If you're looking for
Alex, I think he went
back up to that core
place up above.#

@MermaidVillageBruno_AlexAtSpring
If you're looking for
Alex, he's waiting for
you at the hot spring,
east of the village.#

@MermaidVillageBruno_AlexInCity
If you're looking for
Alex, I think he went
up to explore that
ancient human city.#

@MermaidVillageBruno_AlexExploring
I think Alex went off
exploring somewhere.
Not sure where he is
right now.#

@MineSouthSign

Equipment Storage {kTileIdBgArrowDown}#

@SewerPoolSign
    - NOTICE -

   Please do[00ad][aeaf]
  feed the ducks.#

@TempleEntryCorra_Wait
Hey Anna, wait up!#

@TempleEntryCorra_Question
Hi! Did you come to
the temple to pray?%

@TempleEntryCorra_Yes
Me too! I was taught
to pray always for
peace. I didn't think
humans did that.#

@TempleEntryCorra_Whom
I'm not sure whom I'm
praying to, though.
...I guess they never
taught me that.#

@TempleEntryCorra_No
Oh, right...humans
never evolved to seek
after peace, like we
did...#

@TempleEntryCorra_Taught
Er, at least, that's
what I was taught.#

@TempleEntryCorra_AlexAsked
Oh, I almost forgot!
Alex asked me to tell
you where to find him
if I saw you.#

@TempleEntryCorra_MarkMap
Here, I'll just mark
it on your map.#

@TempleEntryGuard_Intro
I am guarding the
entrance to the temple
you see above us.#

@TempleEntryGuard_NoPermission
I cannot help you to
enter it without the
queen's permission.#

@TempleEntryGuard_Enter
Our queen has sent
word: I am to allow
you to enter.#

@TownHouse5Bruno
If you're looking for
Alex, he wanted to
show you something at
the east end of town.#

@TownHouse5Marie_Part1
They try not to show
it, but the adults all
seem pretty worried
lately.#

@TownHouse5Marie_Part2
What will we do if we
don't have enough food
to last through the
winter?#
